# Game Design Document

An implementation in C of a game as a final team project for 2024 CS 3. 

## Section 0: Summary
- **Concept Statement:** Play nine holes of miniature golf against your friend, but with the course changing every hole! Avoid moving obstacles and bouncy springs that try to get in your way, and get as low of a score as you can! 

## Section 1: Gameplay
- **How does your game progress?** There will be nine holes over the course of the game. Once the ball reaches the hole, the second player has the chance to play. After the second player goes, the next level is automatically loaded. After all nine holes are played, the game is over. An end screen will be shown that recaps both players' performance. 
- **What are the win and loss conditions?** The winner is the player with the lowest stroke count after all 9 holes. 
- **Are there levels?** There are 9 holes, which are analogous to levels. These levels have randomly generated course set ups. 
- **Are there points?** Points are kept in the form of the number of total hits (more is worse).
- **controls (keyboard? mouse? tongue?)** The mouse controls everything, including both the direction and strength of the hit. Also, the mouse controls the play button. When hitting the ball, the player will click and drag the pointer in the direction they want the ball to go (terminating point). The vector between the ball’s center and the terminating point will determine the angle of the ball’s motion, and it will also determine the impulse that will be delivered to the ball.
- **physics (how does your game incorporate the physics engine?)** The ball, walls, obstacles, yellow springs, and holes are all bodies. When the ball is hit, there will be an impulse that instantly changes the ball’s velocity, and there will be a frictional force that slows down the ball over time. In addition, when the ball hits a wall or an obstacle (of infinite mass), there will be a physics collision that controls how the ball’s velocity changes. In addition, when the ball hits a yellow bouncy circle, the ball will experience a force that pushes the ball away with an elasticity much greater than 1. The physics engine will also handle the motion and ticking of the bodies, and will handle all collisions (including if the ball collides with the hole).
- **game flow (what does the game look like from start to end for the player?)** There will be a start screen. The player will click play, causing the first hole to load. The player must control, using the mouse, the direction they hit the ball and how strong. As explained before, the player will click and drag the mouse pointer to control the angle the ball will travel in and the impulse with which the ball will be delivered. The ball will bounce around due to the walls, the obstacles, and the springs, and will experience a frictional force until the ball is again at rest. The player will keep hitting the ball in this way until a proper collision occurs between the ball and the hole. Then, the second player will use the same course. After both players have gone, the next level will load. This will happen for a total of 9 holes. The score will be kept track in the form of the total number of hits. Once the 9th hole is made, the end screen will pop up with the score of the game. There will be a play again button. 
- **graphics (will you draw polygons? use sprites? make your own vector graphics?)** We will use bodies for the walls, obstacles, springs, the ball, and the hole. We will design images for the background and the springs, and declare them as assets with and without bodies. There will be a background that will be an asset without a body.
